Incoming livestream: Hi everyone, thank you for coming to my talk. So, my name is Jenny Guan Yichu, and I'm an AI security researcher, and my research is currently backed by this, venture capital called Pebble Bed Ventures. Brief, background, I am a CTF player. Our team won third place in DEF CON last year, and I,
Incoming livestream: Before last year, I wanted to do, a, to build a math AGI, but then I realized that, like, I can use the skills I had at Caltech for building Math AGI for cybersecurity, which is a field I'm extremely passionate about.
Incoming livestream: So, here it's, so I choose, Linux kernel for, my research because, kernel patches still get lost in 2025, and there's, like, 1400 emails per day on Linux kernel mailing list, and volunteer, maintainers get drawn, there's no centralized tracking, so basically, there's a huge infra issue for, Linux
Incoming livestream: kernels. And kernel testing is uniquely hard, because you need, real hardware across architectures, and, you know, there's a lot of CI, but there's no CI coordination. So, more CI does not mean better, CI.
Incoming livestream: And what I found in Linux kernel is that there's 125,000 labeled vulnerability dataset, which is… the dataset is what's important for building machine learning models. And, basically, there's this, fixes invention where you have different commits, and some commits introduce vulnerability, so a later commit would refer to the previous commit with a fixes tag.
Incoming livestream: like, in this case, the fix is, to refer to that, commit that would introduce vulnerability. And this is great, because, like, label data set, I can use it to train my machine learning model.
Incoming livestream: And, when I look into the Linux kernel bug distribution, it's actually interesting, because 13% of the bugs hide for over 5 years.
Incoming livestream: And, their different kernel substances have different bug lifetimes. So, CAN bus and, like, this… there's also this 19 years bug that was hidden in the Linux kernel, which is super interesting. It was introduced in August 2006 and fixed in August 2025. And what's really interesting about this is that, this,
Incoming livestream: commit itself was a fixing commit. So…
Incoming livestream: When I analyzed all the bugs, it appears that bugs introduced in recent years, get fixed much faster. However, that's actually not entirely true, because the data is right-censored. What we found, the bugs that were introduced in 2022, are, like, found, like, much faster, because we just haven't… it's only 2026 right now, we just haven't had the time
Incoming livestream: To have really long-living bugs. And, you know, race-conditioned bugs hide the, longest, because, you know, we need to trigger them, like, very specific conditions, and it's just not very easy to find.
Incoming livestream: And there's also a lot of, incomplete fixes,
Incoming livestream: So, I wanna talk… so there's this anatomy of long-lived bugs, for example, there's reference counting errors, they don't crash immediately, they leak memory slowly. So you might not notice until months later, and then there's, missing null checks after dereference.
Incoming livestream: The compiler might optimize away, the null check, since you already dereferenced, and they survive because the pointers rarely null in practice. And there's also integer overflow in size calculations, and, race stations, risk conditions in state machines, which require precise timing to hit. And there's 20 bug fixers, I'm gonna shout out to them in the Linux kernel.
Incoming livestream: And…
Incoming livestream: who fixes these bugs most often, which was also really interesting when I looked into it, in the top 10 super reviewers. And, Dan Carpenter, beyond his, like, 12,000 bug fixes, also invented the fixes tag convention.
Incoming livestream: So I wanted to train my model, and before I trained any neural model, I was like, what if I just, do, do a very dumb, dumb thing where, for example, the B1, it's just 3 numbers, like, lines added, removed, file changes, changed on all the diffs, and this was surprisingly, it was able to get, area under curve 0.779,
Incoming livestream: And, a little background, what is, the area under curve? What curve, curve, so the curve is actually modeling,
Incoming livestream: the recalls, and, basically, 0.779 means that for every, thing, like, the reason that it's so good is because there's just so many, there's not that many vulnerable, commits, so that if you just guess, like, safe for all of them, you're gonna get a pretty good, like, accuracy, so…
Incoming livestream: And B4, it's just the commit subjects only, and B6 is combined on subjects and the divs.
Incoming livestream: And, basically, what this tells me is that if your model, cannot beat these, like, simple dumb business lines, it's just a fancy tokenizer, because this is… there's no, like, neural networks in here, they're just, you know,
Incoming livestream: the dominology decision trees for, B8 were, it's, I trained it, 118 hand-engineered features, looking at the diffs, and, telling me, if the diffs actually, have, like, the, for, for the, features that the diff has, training on them. And, another thing I realized is that the token sizes matter.
Incoming livestream: Because, different models have different token sizes, basically how much is it able to look at at the same time? And at 15, 512 tokens, transformers, they read messages, not code, meaning, meaning, like, they don't get to see all of the, diffs.
Incoming livestream: And so I was able to increase it to 8,000 tokens, and it achieved a much better result. So context length unlocks code understanding, and another thing is vulnerability patterns have a shelf life. So, the models I've trained, I looked at how good it's able to predict, over, like, different time periods. For example, like, and I, I realized, like, it's able to,
Incoming livestream: do much better in the earlier ones than later. So this tells us, like, how often we need to, like, update the models when we train them. And another thing I realized was that curriculum learning was backwards, because when I first started training, I thought that large, complex diffs with many pattern imbalances are very hard to classify.
Incoming livestream: However, the reality is that large diffs are… there's more signals, it's easier, it's, so, but the small diffs with, like, not that many contexts changes, are, are a lot harder for the models, because there's less signals.
Incoming livestream: And so the actually hard samples are, like, 1 to 5 line changes with simple, missing null checks, or, you know, refcon increment without obvious error path, and lock requiring one function releasing another. And another thing I found out that's really surprising is that, instead of having better architectures, what actually really helped was having much better data set.
Incoming livestream: So, after doing some research, like the authors, I listed here, I found out that hard negatives aren't universally good. So I, in the beginning, I curated my dataset with a lot of, very hard, negatives, meaning that, like, the positive classes, like.
Incoming livestream: So, like, for me, those are very hard, bugs to find. And however, actually, what really helped was to include a lot of, easy, bugs for the model, because, like, the model needs to learn what is obviously safe before learning what is subtly dangerous, because, like, most bugs are, obviously safe, and,
Incoming livestream: Yes, and that is,
Incoming livestream: that is my, my progress, learning, and understanding, and, I have a blog post here, linked at the Pebble bed website, and my Twitter, it's, Guan Yichu. So the blog post actually, went to number one on Haku News, and there's a lot more details on the blog post, and,
Incoming livestream: Yes, I'm open to any questions.
Incoming livestream: Alright.
Incoming livestream: I love the cheats idea. I think it's, like, like a fuzzing sort of approach. Was there some cheats that you,
Incoming livestream: thought would fool the model, but it didn't. Like, you're like, oh, this is a great cheat, this is gonna trick it, but then it didn't trick it.
Incoming livestream: So, what do you mean by cheats? It was on your slide, you said, like, there are these cheats where you try to kind of fool the model by just putting 3 numbers and seeing if it would get…
Incoming livestream: confu- easily confused by you injecting 3 bogus numbers. There was, like, a slide you had that, had, 2 or 3… yes, this one, the four examples. Was there any of these,
Incoming livestream: maybe cheats. I thought I heard… I thought I read or heard the word cheats, but was there anything, any of these examples, that you thought would kind of fool and get a higher score, but actually the model was good enough to reject your attempt to…
Incoming livestream: fuzz it? Does that make sense? Actually, that's, like, that's a great question, and what happened was actually the opposite of it. I thought that these are not gonna work, because these are just so silly, you know, like, instead of looking at the cold diffs, like, the actual diffs that introduce the vulnerability, which is where the vulnerability happens, you just look at the numbers, like, how many lines were added in this commit, how many were removed, and what are the
Incoming livestream: file names that were changed, and I was like, this is not very relevant to, like, the vulnerability. So, like, I was like, the model is not gonna do very well with only these three numbers, and what's surprising is, like, the model is actually doing pretty well, and the reason is that there's just not that many vulnerability, vulnerable commits, so just by, like, so just by, like, even the model, if the model doesn't learn
Incoming livestream: very well, just by bluntly, you know, guessing and matching on these superficial patterns, it's doing pretty good on the recall. Like, like, giving it a hundred, 100, vulnerable commits, or, like, safe commits, how many of it, how much of it is it able to guess correctly? And since the ratio is just, so, like, one-sided, where the majority of the commits are.
Incoming livestream: are safe, the model can just do really well, so this is what's really surprising to me.
Incoming livestream: It's surprising to me, too, that's why it's a great, I think this is the slide of the talk for me, so greatly great job.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so, like, yesterday, I remember, like, Carlini, like, Nicholas Carlini was talking about how he was able to use Cloud Code to find, like, hundreds of crutches in this kernel, and, I, I, it's extremely interesting, but because, like, this is the issue that,
Incoming livestream: I'm also, like, facing is, like, there's a lot of false positives, in the model. The model can, like, tell you, oh, this looks suspicious, I have this high level of confidence that this commit is vulnerable. However, there's no way to verify. And even if, like, there's crushes, crushes does not mean actual vulnerability. It does not mean you can actually exploit this bug. So there is, there's a long, like, a big gap between
Incoming livestream: crashes to actual, like, exploit chains.
Incoming livestream: So, yeah, so, but I think, this model, this, like, this experiment is super interesting, because, like, imagine, we can use this on the hundreds of crashes that, Nicholas Carlini has, and then, like, point, point him and his brain power onto the ones that actually are a lot more suspicious, like, higher severity in his rating, to, like, so he can prioritize his time.
Incoming livestream: Any more questions?